---
topic: Food
---
If you follow me on [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/matthew.persico) you may
be wondering, "What's up with all the
[Strava](https://www.facebook.com/1538859698/posts/pfbid0pG3fRH6v1oDaV4xmRATfz8WusqQHhRxSMS5jwdp2tB42BNi1LzUEZ2DK9nD7dfRsl/?d=n)
posts?" Well, it all comes down to three little numbers.

2

9

1

All less than 10.

But when you put them together...

On May 13, I was putting the bathroom back together after having the floor
re-tiled. On a whim, I decided to see what the scale would say when I stepped
on it. I'm not normally a "scale person". I judge my health by which hole on my
belt I happen to be using this week. Now I knew I was getting up there because
there we less and less unused holes, but I took my usual attitude of, "Yeah I
need to do something; eventually, I'll get around to it.". Then I stepped on
the scale.

291.

Two hundred and ninety one.

Ok. I am no doctor, but that was the highest I have every weighed.

I looked at that number and thought about the countless number of times in the
past month, year, years I said to my self that I had to do something about my
weight. But there was never any motivation to change habits, work at some
exercise.

But this time when I looked at that number, I realized that even if I had no
regard for my own health (and I do have some regard), the person most likely to
be affected by my dropping dead of a stroke or a heart attack was my wife,
starting her third year of chemo, for whom *I* am providing the health
benefits. Therefore, I had to do something.

I started with a simple plan - eat less, don't eat between meals and walk for
an hour a day. As I started to work out the details of this plan, I happened to
run into this [West Wing video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFh8PoTa-40)
while going down a YouTube rabbit hole one night. It's the scene where Leo
McGarry is exit-interviewing the admin who outed Leo's rehab stint for pills
and alcohol. The relevant dialogue starts at [2:00])(https://youtu.be/XFh8PoTa-40?t=120):

Admin: "So, after six and a half years, you're till not allowed to have a drink?"

Leo: "The problem is I don't want a drink; I want 10 drinks."

And that resonated with me: My name is Matthew Persico and I am a
["foodaholic"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_addiction). When you want a
cookie to take a cookie; I take a half sleeve. You get a slice of pizza, I eat
three. You have a dish of pasta, I get a bowl, go back for seconds, and grab
another spoonful as I am putting it into the fridge.

I get a Twinkie at the gas station every time I fill up a car. I get a Snickers
or Payday or Baby Ruth every time I check out at the grocery store.

And when my wife goes to bed at 9pm, it's showtime! Put on three hours of Star
Trek, First commercial: the aforementioned half-sleeve of cookies. Next break,
fruit. Next break, peanut butter an jelly sandwich. Next break, crackers. Next
break, ice cream. And on, and on, and on.

I do not mean to belittle anyone who has an actual medical diagnosis of
addition; I am not medically classified and I am not a doctor. But if you
cannot control your intake and you do your worst out of sight, that sounds to
me like an addiction, no?

So, what do you do? You cannot stop eating, right? Of course, but look at
alcoholism: you can still drink, just not alcohol. That is the path I took: I
can still eat, just not as much as I was eating and not everything that I was
eating.

I settled in on:

* Breakfast - One serving of cereal with skim milk, possibly fruit topped or
  two eggs (with no more than three strips of bacon on Sundays).

* Lunch - Two or three slices of turkey, a slice of swiss and a 70-calorie wrap
  for lunch. Absolutely no mayo. I'll use relish, pickles, mustard even cole
  slaw on occasion as a garnish.

* Dinner - salad or steamed frozen vegetable plus whatever protein Donna
  wants - fish, chicken, steak, the occasional hamburger.

* Dessert is one piece of fruit or a serving of cut berries.

And. That's. It.

Between meals, I take my sodastream and drop in a lime. No eating between. And
certainly not between dinner and breakfast. In order to pull of that last bit,
I've been going to bed at the same time Donna does so that I am not downstairs
to get tempted to nosh.

Is it perfect? No. Occasionally I'll start watching Stat Trek or a Yankee
game. The difference:

First break: pickle slice wrapped in a slice of swiss.

Second break: If I can't sit through the commercials, I go upstairs and call it
a night.

So, what is the result if all this? Look for yourself:

|Week|Date|Weight|Week Loss|Cumul. Loss|Weekly Avg. Loss|Notes|
|----|----|------|---------|-----------|----------------|-----|
|0|05/13|291|||||
|1|05/20|282|9|9|9.0||
|2|05/27|277|5|14|7.0||
|3|06/03|274|3|17|5.6||
|4|06/10|267|7|24|6.0||
|5|06/17|263|4|28|5.4||
|6|06/24||||||My flight back from Houston was on 6/25. Decided not to stress since I did enjoy myself a bit at the conference. Texas BBQ.|
|7|07/01|259|4|32|4.4||
|8|07/08|254|5|37|4.5||
|9|07/15|250|4|41|4.4||
|10|07/22|243|7|48|4.8||
|11|07/29|239|4|52|4.7||
|12|08/05|237|2|54|4.5|Veselka, Viniero's and Yankee Stadium|
|13|08/12|||||
|14|08/19|||||
|15|08/26|||||

I'm down from waist size 48 to 38 and shirt size from teetering on the edge of
3xl down to an xl. I can walk long distances without strain (as long as the
humidity is reasonable). I feel much more comfortable, have so much more energy
and don't loathe mirrors anymore. And, apparently, the Strava posts are serving
as inspiration for two people I know to work on their own fitness.

Most importantly - I'm much less likely to drop dead and leave my wife without
insurance.
